#summary OBO Foundry Operations Committee Editorial WG
#labels Featured,Editorial

= Introduction =

This page describes members and activities of the OBO Foundry Operations Committee Editorial Working Group.


= Details =

From the [http://code.google.com/p/obo-foundry-operations-committee/wiki/MissionStatement MissionStatement]: OBO Foundry Operations Committee Editorial WG is involved in reviewing OBO Foundry ontologies and policy setting. Primary tasks are to conduct reviews, but also include all activities that enable that process, such as tool building for automated validation, website maintenance of the review results, or leading calls and taking notes. 

== Scope ==
The OBO Foundry Editorial WG will:
  * create guidelines for ontology review process (how we do reviews, operationally)
  * create policies for ontology review criteria (what aspects of an ontology and which ontologies we should review)
  * manage the ontology review process

Current activities are focused on creating guidelines for reviews. Once those guidelines are in place, the working group will shift its focus to carrying out the review process, with an aim of reducing the backlog of ontologies awaiting review.

== Draft guidelines and policies ==

[http://code.google.com/p/obo-foundry-operations-committee/wiki/ReviewProcessGuidelines Ontology review process guidelines]

[http://code.google.com/p/obo-foundry-operations-committee/wiki/ReviewCriteriaPolicies Ontology review criteria policies]

[http://code.google.com/p/obo-foundry-operations-committee/wiki/ReviewManagementGuidelines Ontology review management guidelines]

= Members =
(in alphabetical order)<br>
members, please fill in names and links

[http://www.nybg.org/science/scientist_profile.php?id_scientist=119 Ramona Walls], New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, NY, USA<br>

Membership in the OBO Foundry Editorial WG is open to all members of the OBO Foundry Operations Committee who are willing to actively participate. If you are interested in joining the working group, send an email to the mailing list.


= Mailing list =

= Contact Us =

The best way to contact the OBO Foundry Editorial Working Group is through the [http://code.google.com/p/obo-foundry-operations-committee/issues/list issue tracker]. Select the Editorial group template or the Request review template.

The mailing list for the OBO Foundry Editorial Working Group is [mailto:obo-foundry-editorial-working-group@googlegroups.com obo-foundry-editorial-working-group@googlegroups.com]. This is currently a closed list, but non-members can post to the list.